Typical Attacks:

Phishing ~ We have already seen this type of attack where an email was sent out and asked for account information.  
This type of attack is very common and because of it people are susceptible due to lack of training.  (We have 
had training on this already).  The main point of this is that there is a sense of urgency many times with this attack.  

Quid pro Quo ~ Often times not thought of as a Social engineering attack, this attack relies on the victims naivety.  
They impersonate IT or other services, offering help for an issue or a non-issue for information or other malicious acts.  
The attacker can gain access to the users computer and from there, disable their firewall and install malicious software 
under the guise of software updates.  Things to note though, often times passwords can be obtained in exchange for non-IT 
services.  This could include items like Candy, Writing materials, or other things.  

Tailgating ~ This is when an unknown person gains unauthorized access by piggybacking someone else's authorization.  For 
example: a “delivery” person carrying an oversized box walking up to the door, our inclination is to hold the door for them.  
Often times this is done without knowledge of a delivery being made.  Other things to look for would be over friendly people.  
We are all familiar with the term “Stranger Danger” the same applies here.  These individuals will start a conversation with 
employees showing a familiarity with the workings of the company and showing they belong.  Then ask to be let in because the 
forgot their badge, key fob, or other device to gain access to a building.

Pretexting ~ This type of attack relies on gaining false trust from the victim.  They pretend to need certain types of 
information to do their jobs.  They will use a false story in order to gain the information they need.  They could also 
manipulate individuals to performing an action to exploit weaknesses.  These attacks can be used to gain sensitive and 
nonsensitive information.

Baiting ~ This is a similar attack to Phishing.  The difference is the offer or promise of goods.  Attackers could use 
offers of free music, movies or other services for credentials or other information.  A common promise is free gift cards


Misc. Information

Even seemingly benign information can lead to something severe (Phishing)

Sharing too much information on social media can enable attackers to guess passwords or extract a company's confidential 
information through posts by employees. (Shobha Mallarapu) 

Shoulder surfing is an attack not listed but should be mentioned.  This attack is exactly what it sounds like.  The 
attacker will look over the shoulder of the victim to view logon credentials.  

A lot of times an attack will come from within an organization.  Most times these employees are disgruntled.  The way to 
handle them is to if you are an employee, speak up.  Tell your manager your concerns, make them aware.  For managers: remain 
professional, don’t let it fester, Keep it private, Document, and don’t empower the individual.  (additional information 
can be found https://www.americanexpress.com/us/small-business/openforum/articles/the-5-steps-to-managing-a-disgruntled-employee/)

Additional information can be found at https://www.tripwire.com/state-of-security/security-awareness/5-social-engineering-attacks-to-watch-out-for/


References:
Social Engineering Attacks: Common Techniques & How to Prevent an Attack  https://digitalguardian.com/blog/social-engineering-attacks-common-techniques-how-prevent-attack

The Social Engineering Framework  http://www.social-engineer.org/framework/general-discussion/categories-social-engineers/identity-theives/

